---
title: 作文模板
published: 2023-08-03
category: 笔记
tags: [考研, 英语]
# updated: 2023-12-02 22:00:01
# categories: [笔记, 考试]
---
## 一、大作文

### 1. 第一段

`This is a bar/line/pie chart/graph which describes`↓

- the general trend of `__________` .
- the proportion of `_________`（提炼关键词）.
- ......（图标标题）

`+时间`↓

- from 2010 to 2020.
- between 2010 and 2020.
- during the last 20 years.
- ......

---

`To be specific/Specifically, ______. By stark contrast, ______.`（具体化描述一组对比的图表的变动，例如增长、下跌、……）↓

- 柱状图
    - increase sharply / decrease substantially `v. + adv.`
    - experience(中性)/enjoy(好)/suffer from(坏) a dramatic decline `adj. + n.`
    - There is a sharp/gentle increase/rise/decrease/decline from `____` to `____` in `____`.
- 饼图
    - `______` **account for** 60%, **the highest ratio among** the `(four)` categories `突出占比`
    - Simultaneously, `______`% of the (students) **intend to** do sth. **and** `____`% **to** do sth. , **respectively**. `并列表述1(省略动词)`
    - Approximately / Nearly / Only `____`% and `____`% of `(students)` intend to do sth. and do sth. , **respectively**. `并列表述2(分别)`
    - nearly 20% `______` , another 20% `______` , the remaining 20% `______`. `并列描述3(同量不同型)`

---

### 2. 第二段

> 关键词（社会因素）
> 
> > 经济发展 econoic growth  
> > 社会影响 social impact/influence  
> > 人口膨胀 population explosion  
> > 教育体系 education system  
> > 科技创新 technological innovation

There are several/two fundamental factors contributing to this social phenomenon. The primary factor lies in `______`(原因1). `______`(阐述1). (回归主题句：Therefore/因此...增长/下降...)  
Futhermore, `______`(原因2). `______`(阐述2).

- social impact may give rise to this trend

---

### 3. 第三段

> 积极地

1. With regard to this social tendency, I believe it is inspiring and positive. As this trend is still in its infancy, we believe it will no doubt go further and lead to the future prospect.

> 消极的

2. To my knowledge, this social tendency is unfavorable(`令人不快的`). It is high time that(`是...的时候了`) we took actions to address the quandary(`解决困境`). I realize it needs to be slowed down since it has already posed negative impact to our society.

> 中性的

3. Based on my personal experience, I can safety draw a conclusion that `______` is a double-edged sword. Whether it is a boon(`恩惠`) or a bane(`毒药`) will be discussed for a number of years to come. However, one should make sensible use, being a master rather than a slave of it.

### 4. 关键词

1. 数量：  
    number(可数), amount(不可数), statistics(统计数字)
    
2. 比例：  
    percentage, proportion, ratio, share
    
3. 上升：  
    go up, increase, climb, ascend, rise
    
    > 急速上升：increase sharply, surge, soar, rocket
    
4. 下降：  
    go down, decrease, decline, descend
    
    > 极速下落：plunge, slump
    
5. 程度：
    
    - 剧烈：  
        dramatically, significantly, sharply, substantially
    - 缓慢：  
        slightly, steadily, gently, progressively, moderately
6. 从...到...：  
    from...to..., between...and...
    
7. 某种/某些/某个  
    certain, some
    
8. 大约：  
    about, around, some, roughly, nearly, approximately
    
9. 分别  
    respectively
    
10. 对比：  
    On the contrary, In/By (stark) contrast, Conversely
    
11. 转折：  
    However, Nevertheless, Nonetheless
    
12. 因果：  
    As a result/consequence, Consequently, Therefore
    
13. 同时：  
    Simultaneously, In the meantime, At the same time, Meanwhile
    
14. 占比  
    account for, constitute, make up
    
15. 关注  
    pay attention to, place emphasis on, lay stress on, attach importance to, emphasize  
    focus on, concentrate on, care about, be concerned with, be interested in
    
16. 保持不变  
    remain + steady / static / unchanged / unvaried  
    波动  
    fluctuate
    
17. 现象  
    phenomenon, stituation  
    趋势  
    trend, tendency, inclination
    
18. 在毕业之际 upon graduation
    
19. 满意  
    be satisfied with, be content with, show satisfaction to  
    不满意  
    be dissatisfied with, be discontent with, show dissatisfaction to
    
20. 抚养：raise, bring up, breed  
    赡养：support, maintain
    

## 二、小作文

Dear `______`,  
I am `______`. I am writing this letter for the purpose of `____________`.  
To begin with `_________`. Furthermore, `_____________`.

> 结尾五选二  
> ① Thank you very much for your time and consideration.(感谢)  
> ② I apologize for any inconvenience caused.(道歉)  
> ③ I am looking forward to your reply.(盼复)  
> ④ I hope that you can enjoy your work and life.(祝愿)  
> ⑤ Should you have any further questions, please let me know.(联系)


提建议句型

- Will you please...(do)?
- Would you mind...(doing)?
- Is it possible for ... to do sth.?
